The Linux "core" (called a kernel) was born in 1991 in Finland.
It went on to be the kernel of the GNU Operating System, creating the duo GNU/Linux.

A "distro" is made by a company or organization and packages the Linux core with additional programs and tooling.
For example you have Debian, Red Hat, and Ubuntu, probably the most popular distributions.

Linux Shell: A shell is a command interpreter that exposes an interface to the user to work with the underlying operating system. It allows you to execute operations using text and commands, and it provides users advanced features like being able to create scripts.
There are many different shells like Bash, Csh, Zsh, Fish and many more. All shells originate from the Bourne Shell, called sh. "Bourne" because its creator was Steve Bourne.

Bash means Bourne-again shell. sh was proprietary and not open source, and Bash was created in 1989 to create a free alternative for the GNU project and the Free Software Foundation. Since projects had to pay to use the Bourne shell, Bash became very popular.

Commands:

1. man <command>  -> lets you understand all the other commands

2. ls -> Inside a folder you can list all the files that the folder contains using the ls command
    ls /bin  -> ls inside a particular directory.
    ls -al /bin  -> Compared to the plain ls command, this returns much more information.
                        You have, from left to right:
                        the file permissions (and if your system supports ACLs, you get an ACL flag as well)
                        the number of links to that file
                        the owner of the file
                        the group of the file
                        the file size in bytes
                        the file's last modified datetime
                        the file name
                    This set of data is generated by the l option. The a option instead also shows the hidden files.
                    Hidden files are files that start with a dot (.).
    
3. cd ->  cd means change directory. You invoke it specifying a folder to move into.
    cd ..  -> to move back
    cd /etc  -> You can also use absolute paths, which start from the root folder /
    
4. pwd  -> Whenever you feel lost in the filesystem, call the pwd command to know where you are. It will print the current folder path

5. mkdir -p fruits/apples  -> to create nested folders option -p can be used.

6. rmdir fruits cars  ->  to delete empty folders
    rm -rf cars -> to delete folders which have files
    
7. mv pear new_pear  -> move pear file to new_pear folder

    touch pear
    touch apple
    mkdir fruits
    mv pear apple fruits #pear and apple moved to the fruits folder
    
8. cp  -> You can copy a file using the cp command
    cp apple another_apple
    
    To copy folders you need to add the -r option to recursively copy the whole folder contents:
    mkdir fruits
    cp -r fruits cars
    
 9. open <filename>  -> used to open a file, you can also open current directory
 
 10. touch apple -> creates an empty file, if file alreadu exist it will open the file in write mode and the timestamp of the file is updated.
 
 11. find  -> The find command can be used to find files or folders matching a particular search pattern. It searches recursively.
     find . -name '*.js'  -> Find all the files under the current tree that have the .js extension and print the relative path of each file that matches. It's important to use quotes around special characters like * to avoid the shell interpreting them
     
     find . -type d -name src  -> Find directories under the current tree matching the name "src"
     
     Use -type f to search only files, or -type l to only search symbolic links.
    -name is case sensitive. use -iname to perform a case-insensitive search.

     find folder1 folder2 -name filename.txt  ->  You can search under multiple root trees.
     
     find . -type d -name node_modules -or -name public  -> Find directories under the current tree matching the name "node_modules" or 'public'.
     find . -type d -name '*.md' -not -path 'node_modules/*' -> exclude folder
     find . -type f -size +100c  -> You can search files that have more than 100 characters (bytes) in them
     find . -type f -size +100k -size -1M  -> Search files bigger than 100KB but smaller than 1MB
     find . -type f -mtime +3 ->  Search files edited more than 3 days ago
     find . -type f -mtime -1  -> Search files edited in the last 24 hours
     find . -type f -mtime -1 -delete  -> You can delete all the files matching a search by adding the -delete option. This deletes all the files edited in the last 24 hours
     find . -type f -exec cat {} \;  -> You can execute a command on each result of the search. In this example we run cat to print the file content. the terminating \;. {} is filled with the file name at execution time.
     

12. ln -> It's used to create links. What is a link? It's like a pointer to another file, or a file that points to another file. You might be familiar with Windows shortcuts. They're similar.
    We have 2 types of links: hard links and soft links.
    
    Hard links: Hard links are rarely used. They have a few limitations: you can't link to directories, and you can't link to external filesystems (disks).
    A hard link is created using the following syntax:
    ln <original> <link>
    For example, say you have a file called recipes.txt. You can create a hard link to it using:
       ln recipes.txt newrecipes.txt  -> The new hard link you created is indistinguishable from a regular file

    Now any time you edit any of those files, the content will be updated for both.
    If you delete the original file, the link will still contain the original file content, as that's not removed until there is one hard link pointing to it.



    Soft links: Soft links are different. They are more powerful as you can link to other filesystems and to directories. But keep in mind that when the original is removed, the link will be broken.

    You create soft links using the -s option of ln:
    ln -s <original> <link>
    For example, say you have a file called recipes.txt. You can create a soft link to it using:
    ln -s recipes.txt newrecipes.txt
    
    In this case there's a special l flag when you list the file using ls -al. The file name has a @ at the end, and it's also colored differently if you have colors enabled. Now if you delete the original file, the links will be broken, and the shell will tell you "No such file or directory" if you try to access it


13. gzip -> You can compress a file using the gzip compression protocol named LZ77 using the gzip command
     gzip filename  -> This will compress the file, and append a .gz extension to it. The original file is deleted.

    To prevent this, you can use the -c option and use output redirection to write the output to the filename.gz file:
    gzip -c filename > filename.gz  -> The -c option specifies that the output will go to the standard output stream, leaving the original file intact.

    Or you can use the -k option:
    gzip -k filename
    There are various levels of compression. The more the compression, the longer it will take to compress (and decompress). Levels range from 1 (fastest, worst compression) to 9 (slowest, better compression), and the default is 6.

    gzip -1 filename -> You can choose a specific level with the -<NUMBER> option:

    gzip filename1 filename2  -> You can compress multiple files by listing them

    gzip -r a_folder -> you can compress all the files in a directory, recursively, using the -r option:

    The -v option prints the compression percentage information. 
    gzip -d filename.gz -> gzip can also be used to decompress a file, using the -d option.
    

14. gunzip filename.gz  -> The gunzip command is basically equivalent to the gzip command, except the -d option is always enabled by default.

    This will gunzip and will remove the .gz extension, putting the result in the filename file. If that file exists, it will overwrite that.
     gunzip -c filename.gz > anotherfilename  ->  You can extract to a different filename using output redirection using the -c option:
   

15. The tar command is used to create an archive, grouping multiple files in a single file. Its name comes from the past and means tape archive (back when archives were stored on tapes).

    tar -cf archive.tar file1 file2  ->  This command creates an archive named archive.tar with the content of file1 and file2:
    The c option stands for create. The f option is used to write to file the archive.

    tar -xf archive.tar  ->  To extract files from an archive in the current folder, use: the x option stands for extract.

    And to extract them to a specific directory, use: tar -xf archive.tar -C directory

    You can also just list the files contained in an archive
    tar -tf archive.tar
    
    tar -czf archive.tar.gz file1 file2  --> tar is often used to create a compressed archive, gzipping the archive
    This is done using the z option:
    This is just like creating a tar archive, and then running gzip on it.

    To unarchive a gzipped archive, you can use gunzip, or gzip -d, and then unarchive it. But tar -xf will recognize it's a gzipped archive, and do it for you:
    tar -xf archive.tar.gz
    

16. alias ll='ls -al'  -> to give alias to a command which is large and contain options
    Now calling alias without any option will list the aliases defined. means it will return ll='ls -al'
    
    The alias will work until the terminal session is closed.
    To make it permanent, you need to add it to the shell configuration. This could be ~/.bashrc or ~/.profile or ~/.bash_profile.

    Be careful with quotes if you have variables in the command: if you use double quotes, the variable is resolved at definition time. If you use use single quotes, it's resolved at invocation time. Those 2 are different:

    alias lsthis="ls $PWD"
    alias lscurrent='ls $PWD'
    \$PWD refers to the current folder the shell is in. If you now navigate away to a new folder, lscurrent lists the files in the new folder, whereas lsthis still lists the files in the folder where you were when you defined the alias.
    


17. Similar to tail in some ways, we have cat. Except cat can also add content to a file, and this makes it super powerful.
    In its simplest usage, cat prints a file's content to the standard output:

    cat file  -> You can print the content of multiple files:

    cat file1 file2
    cat file1 file2 > file3  -> using the output redirection operator > you can concatenate the content of multiple files into a new file:

    cat file1 file2 >> file3  ->  Using >> you can append the content of multiple files into a new file, creating it if it does not exist:

    cat -n file1  ->  When you're looking at source code files it's helpful to see the line numbers. You can have cat print them using the -n option:
    You can only add a number to non-blank lines using -b, or you can also remove all the multiple empty lines using -s.
    cat is often used in combination with the pipe operator | to feed a file's content as input to another command: cat file1 | anothercommand
    
    
18.  less <filename> -> It shows you the content stored inside a file, in a nice and interactive UI.

    Once you are inside a less session, you can quit by pressing q.
    You can navigate the file contents using the up and down keys, or using the space bar and b to navigate page by page. You can also jump to the end of the file pressing G and jump back to the start by pressing g.

    You can search contents inside the file by pressing / and typing a word to search. This searches forward. You can search backwards using the ? symbol and typing a word.

    This command just visualises the file's content. You can directly open an editor by pressing v. It will use the system editor, which in most cases is vim.

    Pressing the F key enters follow mode, or watch mode. When the file is changed by someone else, like from another program, you get to see the changes live.

    This doesn't happen by default, and you only see the file version at the time you opened it. You need to press ctrl-C to quit this mode. In this case the behaviour is similar to running the tail -f <filename> command.

    You can open multiple files, and navigate through them using :n (to go to the next file) and :p (to go to the previous).
    

19. tail -> The best use case of tail in my opinion is when called with the -f option. It opens the file at the end, and watches for file changes.
    Any time there is new content in the file, it is printed in the window. This is great for watching log files, for example:

    tail -f /var/log/system.log
    To exit, press ctrl-C.

    tail -n 10 <filename>  ->  You can print the last 10 lines in a file
    tail -n +10 <filename> You can print the whole file content starting from a specific line using + before the line number
    
    
20. The wc command gives us useful information about a file or input it receives via pipes.

    echo test >> test.txt
    wc test.txt
    1       1       5 test.txt
    Example via pipes, we can count the output of running the ls -al command:

    ls -al | wc
    6      47     284
    The first column returned is the number of lines. The second is the number of words. The third is the number of bytes.

     wc -l test.txt  ->  We can tell it to just count the lines
     wc -w test.txt  ->  just the words:
     wc -c test.txt  ->  just the bytes:

    Bytes in ASCII charsets equate to characters. But with non-ASCII charsets, the number of characters might differ because some characters might take multiple bytes (for example this happens in Unicode).

    In this case the -m flag will help you get the correct value.
    wc -m test.txt


21. grep stands for global regular expression print.

    You can use grep to search in files, or combine it with pipes to filter the output of another command.
    grep -n document.getElementById index.md  -> For example here's how we can find the occurences of the document.getElementById line in the index.md file

    grep -n document.getElementById index.md  -> Using the -n option it will show the line numbers

    grep -nC 2 document.getElementById index.md  -> One very useful thing is to tell grep to print 2 lines before and 2 lines after the matched line to give you more context. That's done using the -C option, which accepts a number of lines.

    Search is case sensitive by default. Use the -i flag to make it insensitive.

    less index.md | grep -n document.getElementById  -> you can use grep to filter the output of another command. We can replicate the same functionality as above using.

    The search string can be a regular expression, and this makes grep very powerful.
    Another thing you might find very useful is to invert the result, excluding the lines that match a particular string, using the -v option.


22. sort filename -> Suppose you have a text file which contains the names of dogs:

    This list is unordered. The sort command helps you sort them by name.

    Use the r option to reverse the order.
    Sorting by default is case sensitive, and alphabetic. Use the --ignore-case option to sort case insensitive, and the -n option to sort using a numeric order.

    If the file contains duplicate lines. You can use the -u option to remove them.

    sort does not just work on files, as many UNIX commands do – it also works with pipes. So you can use it on the output of another command. For example you can order the files returned by ls with:
    ls | sort
   

23. uniq is a command that helps you sort lines of text.
    You can get those lines from a file, or using pipes from the output of another command:
    uniq dogs.txt

    ls | uniq
    You need to consider this key thing: uniq will only detect adjacent duplicate lines.
    This implies that you will most likely use it along with sort:
    sort dogs.txt | uniq
    The sort command has its own way to remove duplicates with the -u (unique) option. But uniq has more power.

    By default it removes duplicate lines.
    You can tell it to only display duplicate lines, for example, with the -d option:
    sort dogs.txt | uniq -d

    You can use the -u option to only display non-duplicate lines:

    You can count the occurrences of each line with the -c option:
    Use the special combination
    sort dogs.txt | uniq -c | sort -nr
    to then sort those lines by most frequent


24. diff is a handy command. Suppose you have 2 files, which contain almost the same information, but you can't find the difference between the two.
    diff will process the files and will tell you what's the difference.
    Suppose you have 2 files: dogs.txt and moredogs.txt. The difference is that moredogs.txt contains one more dog name:

    diff dogs.txt moredogs.txt  -> will tell you the second file has one more line, line 3 with the line Vanille.
    If you invert the order of the files, it will tell you that the second file is missing line 3, whose content is Vanille.

    Using the -y option will compare the 2 files line by line:

    The -u option however will be more familiar to you, because that's the same used by the Git version control system to display differences between versions:

    Comparing directories works in the same way. You must use the -r option to compare recursively (going into subdirectories):
    In case you're interested in which files differ, rather than the content, use the r and q options:


25. The echo command does one simple job: it prints to the output the argument passed to it.

    echo "hello"
    will print hello to the terminal.

    We can append the output to a file:

    echo "hello" >> output.txt
    We can interpolate environment variables:

    echo "The path variable is $PATH"
    Beware that special characters need to be escaped with a backslash \. $ for example:

    This is just the start. We can do some nice things when it comes to interacting with the shell features.

    We can echo the files in the current folder:

    echo *
    We can echo the files in the current folder that start with the letter o:

    echo o*
    Any valid Bash (or any shell you are using) command and feature can be used here.

    You can print your home folder path:

    echo ~

    You can also execute commands, and print the result to the standard output (or to file, as you saw):

    echo $(ls -al)
    Note that whitespace is not preserved by default. You need to wrap the command in double quotes to do so:

    You can generate a list of strings, for example ranges:

    echo {1..5}


26. Every file/directory in an Operating System like Linux or macOS (and every UNIX system in general) has an owner.

    The owner of a file can do everything with it. It can decide the fate of that file.

    The owner (and the root user) can change the owner to another user, too, using the chown command:

    chown <owner> <file>
    Like this:

    chown flavio test.txt
    For example if you have a file that's owned by root, you can't write to it as another user:
    echo test >> test.txt   error permission denied

    You can use chown to transfer the ownership to you:
    sudo chown gunjan test.txt
    echo test >> test.txt

    It's rather common to need to change the ownership of a directory, and recursively all the files contained, plus all the subdirectories and the files contained in them, too.

    You can do so using the -R flag:

    chown -R <owner> <file>
    Files/directories don't just have an owner, they also have a group. Through this command you can change that simultaneously while you change the owner:

    chown <owner>:<group> <file>
    Example:

    chown flavio:users test.txt
    You can also just change the group of a file using the chgrp command:

    chgrp <group> <filename>
    The Linux chmod command
    Every file in the Linux / macOS Operating Systems (and UNIX systems in general) has 3 permissions: read, write, and execute.


27. chmod
    Go into a folder, and run the ls -al command.
    The weird strings you see on each file line, like drwxr-xr-x, define the permissions of the file or folder.

    Let's dissect it.

    The first letter indicates the type of file:

    - means it's a normal file
    d means it's a directory
    l means it's a link
    Then you have 3 sets of values:

    The first set represents the permissions of the owner of the file
    The second set represents the permissions of the members of the group the file is associated to
    The third set represents the permissions of the everyone else
    Those sets are composed by 3 values. rwx means that specific persona has read, write and execution access. Anything that is removed is swapped with a -, which lets you form various combinations of values and relative permissions: rw-, r--, r-x, and so on.

    You can change the permissions given to a file using the chmod command.

    chmod can be used in 2 ways. The first is using symbolic arguments, the second is using numeric arguments. Let's start with symbols first, which is more intuitive.

    You type chmod followed by a space, and a letter:

    a stands for all
    u stands for user
    g stands for group
    o stands for others
    Then you type either + or - to add a permission, or to remove it. Then you enter one or more permission symbols (r, w, x).

    All followed by the file or folder name.

    Here are some examples:

    chmod a+r filename #everyone can now read
    chmod a+rw filename #everyone can now read and write
    chmod o-rwx filename #others (not the owner, not in the same group of the file) cannot read, write or execute the file
    You can apply the same permissions to multiple personas by adding multiple letters before the +/-:

    chmod og-r filename #other and group can't read any more
    In case you are editing a folder, you can apply the permissions to every file contained in that folder using the -r (recursive) flag.

    Numeric arguments are faster but I find them hard to remember when you are not using them day to day. You use a digit that represents the permissions of the persona. This number value can be a maximum of 7, and it's calculated in this way:

    1 if has execution permission
    2 if has write permission
    4 if has read permission
    This gives us 4 combinations:

    0 no permissions
    1 can execute
    2 can write
    3 can write, execute
    4 can read
    5 can read, execute
    6 can read, write
    7 can read, write and execute
    We use them in pairs of 3, to set the permissions of all the 3 groups altogether:

    chmod 777 filename
    chmod 755 filename
    chmod 644 filename
    

28. The du command will calculate the size of a directory as a whole:
    du -> the number it returns is a value expressed in bytes.

    Running du * will calculate the size of each file individually.
    You can set du to display values in MegaBytes using du -m, and GigaBytes using du -g.

    The -h option will show a human-readable notation for sizes, adapting to the size:
    Adding the -a option will print the size of each file in the directories, too:

    A handy thing is to sort the directories by size:
    du -h <directory> | sort -nr | head
    and then piping to head to only get the first 10 results
    
    
29. The df command is used to get disk usage information. Its basic form will print information about the volumes mounted.
    Using the -h option (df -h) will show those values in a human-readable format.
    You can also specify a file or directory name to get information about the specific volume it lives on.
    

30. basename  -> Suppose you have a path to a file, for example /Users/flavio/test.txt.
    basename /Users/flavio/test.txt  -> will return the test.txt

    basename /Users/flavio  ->  If you run basename on a path string that points to a directory, you will get the last segment of the path. In this example, /Users/flavio is a directory.
    

31. dirname -> Suppose you have a path to a file, for example /Users/flavio/test.txt.
    dirname /Users/flavio/test.txt  -> will return the /Users/flavio string.


32. ps  -> Your computer is running tons of different processes at all times.
    You can inspect them all using the ps command.
    This gives the list of user-initiated processes currently running in the current session.

    Those are just the commands assigned to the current user. To list all processes we need to pass some options to ps.
    The most common use is ps ax:
    The a option is used to also list other users' processes, not just your own. x shows processes not linked to any terminal (not initiated by users through a terminal).

    The longer commands are cut. Use the command ps axww to continue the command listing on a new line instead of cutting it:
    We need to specify w 2 times to apply this setting (it's not a typo).

    You can search for a specific process combining grep with a pipe, like this:
    ps axww | grep "Visual Studio Code"
    The columns returned by ps represent some key information.

    The first information is PID, the process ID. This is key when you want to reference this process in another command, for example to kill it.
    Then we have TT that tells us the terminal id used.
    Then STAT tells us the state of the process:
    I a process that is idle (sleeping for longer than about 20 seconds) R a runnable process S a process that is sleeping for less than about 20 seconds T a stopped process U a process in uninterruptible wait Z a dead process (a zombie)
    If you have more than one letter, the second represents further information, which can be very technical.
    It's common to have + which indicates that the process is in the foreground in its terminal. s means the process is a session leader.
    TIME tells us how long the process has been running.
   
   
33. top  -> The top command is used to display dynamic real-time information about running processes in the system.

    Its usage is simple – you just type top, and the terminal will be fully immersed in this new view:
    The process is long-running. To quit, you can type the q letter or ctrl-C.

    There's a lot of information being given to us: the number of processes, how many are running or sleeping, the system load, the CPU usage, and a lot more.

    It shows the list of processes taking the most memory and CPU is constantly updated.
    By default, as you can see from the %CPU column highlighted, they are sorted by the CPU used.
    You can add a flag to sort processes by memory utilized:  top -o mem


34. kill -> Linux processes can receive signals and react to them.

    The kill program can send a variety of signals to a program.
    It's not just used to terminate a program, like the name would suggest, but that's its main job.
    We use it in this way:
    kill <PID>
    By default, this sends the TERM signal to the process id specified.

    We can use flags to send other signals, including:
    kill -HUP <PID>
    kill -INT <PID>
    kill -KILL <PID>
    kill -TERM <PID>
    kill -CONT <PID>
    kill -STOP <PID>
    HUP means hang up. It's sent automatically when a terminal window that started a process is closed before terminating the process.
    INT means interrupt, and it sends the same signal used when we press ctrl-C in the terminal, which usually terminates the process.
    KILL is not sent to the process, but to the operating system kernel, which immediately stops and terminates the process.
    TERM means terminate. The process will receive it and terminate itself. It's the default signal sent by kill.
    CONT means continue. It can be used to resume a stopped process.
    STOP is not sent to the process, but to the operating system kernel, which immediately stops (but does not terminate) the process.

    You might see numbers used instead, like kill -1 <PID>. In this case,
    1 corresponds to HUP. 2 corresponds to INT. 9 corresponds to KILL. 15 corresponds to TERM. 18 corresponds to CONT. 15 corresponds to STOP.


35. killall  ->  Similar to the kill command, killall will send the signal to multiple processes at once instead of sending a signal to a specific process id.

    This is the syntax:
    killall <name>  -> where name is the name of a program. For example you can have multiple instances of the top program running, and killall top will terminate them all.

    You can specify the signal, like with kill (and check the kill tutorial to read more about the specific kinds of signals we can send), for example:
    killall -HUP top
    

36. jobs ->  When we run a command in Linux / macOS, we can set it to run in the background using the & symbol after the command.

    For example we can run top in the background:
    top &
    This is very handy for long-running programs.

    We can get back to that program using the fg command. This works fine if we just have one job in the background, otherwise we need to use the job number: fg 1, fg 2 and so on.
    To get the job number, we use the jobs command.
    Say we run top & and then top -o mem &, so we have 2 top instances running. jobs will tell us this:

    Now we can switch back to one of those using fg <jobid>. To stop the program again we can hit cmd-Z.
    Running jobs -l will also print the process id of each job.
    

37. bg -> When a command is running you can suspend it using ctrl-Z.

    The command will immediately stop, and you get back to the shell terminal.
    You can resume the execution of the command in the background, so it will keep running but it will not prevent you from doing other work in the terminal.

    I can run bg 1 to resume in the background the execution of the job #1.
    I could have also said bg without any option, as the default is to pick the job #1 in the list.

38. fg  -> When a command is running in the background, because you started it with & at the end (example: top & or because you put it in the background with the bg command), you can put it to the foreground using fg.

    Running fg
    will resume in the foreground the last job that was suspended.

    You can also specify which job you want to resume to the foreground passing the job number, which you can get using the jobs command.
    Running fg 2 will resume job #2:
    
    
39. type <command> -> A command can be one of those 4 types:

        an executable
        a shell built-in program
        a shell function
        an alias
    The type command can help figure this out, in case we want to know or we're just curious. It will tell you how the command will be interpreted.
    

40. which -> Suppose you have a command you can execute, because it's in the shell path, but you want to know where it is located.
    You can do so using which. The command will return the path to the command specified:
    which will only work for executables stored on disk, not aliases or built-in shell functions.


41. nohop -> Sometimes you have to run a long-lived process on a remote machine, and then you need to disconnect.
    Or you simply want to prevent the command from being halted if there's any network issue between you and the server.
    The way to make a command run even after you log out or close the session to a server is to use the nohup command.
    Use nohup <command> to let the process continue working even after you log out.
    
42. xargs  ->  The xargs command is used in a UNIX shell to convert input from standard input into arguments to a command.
    In other words, through the use of xargs the output of a command is used as the input of another command.

    Here's the syntax you will use:
    command1 | xargs command2
    We use a pipe (|) to pass the output to xargs. That will take care of running the command2 command, using the output of command1 as its argument(s).

    Let's do a simple example. You want to remove some specific files from a directory. Those files are listed inside a text file.
    We have 3 files: file1, file2, file3.
    In todelete.txt we have a list of files we want to delete, in this example file1 and file3:

    We will channel the output of cat todelete.txt to the rm command, through xargs.
    In this way:
    cat todelete.txt | xargs rm
    That's the result, the files we listed are now deleted:
    The way it works is that xargs will run rm 2 times, one for each line returned by cat.

    This is the simplest usage of xargs. There are several options we can use.
    One of the most useful, is -p. Using this option will make xargs print a confirmation prompt with the action it's going to take:
    The -n option lets you tell xargs to perform one iteration at a time, so you can individually confirm them with -p. Here we tell xargs to perform one iteration at a time with -n1.
    The -I option is another widely used one. It allows you to get the output into a placeholder, and then you can do various things.
    One of them is to run multiple commands:
    command1 | xargs -I % /bin/bash -c 'command2 %; command3 %'
    

43. vim is a very popular file editor, especially among programmers. It's actively developed and frequently updated, and there's a big community around it. There's even a Vim conference!

    vi in modern systems is just an alias for vim, which means vi improved.
    You start it by running vi on the command line.
    You can specify a filename at invocation time to edit that specific file:
    vi test.txt
    You have to know that Vim has 2 main modes:

    command (or normal) mode
    insert mode
    When you start the editor, you are in command mode. You can't enter text like you expect from a GUI-based editor. You have to enter insert mode.

    You can do this by pressing the i key. Once you do so, the -- INSERT -- word appears at the bottom of the editor:

    Now you can start typing and filling the screen with the file contents:
    You can move around the file with the arrow keys, or using the h - j - k - l keys. h-l for left-right, j-k for down-up.
    Once you are done editing you can press the esc key to exit insert mode and go back to command mode.
    At this point you can navigate the file, but you can't add content to it (and be careful which keys you press, as they might be commands).

    One thing you might want to do now is save the file. You can do so by pressing : (colon), then w.
    You can save and quit by pressing : then w and q: :wq
    You can quit without saving by pressing : then q and !: :q!
    You can undo and edit by going to command mode and pressing u. You can redo (cancel an undo) by pressing ctrl-r.
    Those are the basics of working with Vim. From here starts a rabbit hole we can't go into in this little introduction.
    
    I will only mention those commands that will get you started editing with Vim:
    pressing the x key deletes the character currently highlighted
    pressing A goes to the end of the currently selected line
    press 0 to go to the start of the line
    go to the first character of a word and press d followed by w to delete that word. If you follow it with e instead of w, the white space before the next word is preserved
    use a number between d and w to delete more than 1 word, for example use d3w to delete 3 words forward
    press d followed by d to delete a whole entire line. Press d followed by $ to delete the entire line from where the cursor is, until the end.
    

44. emacs  -> is an awesome editor and it's historically regarded as the editor for UNIX systems. Famously, vi vs emacs flame wars and heated discussions have caused many unproductive hours for developers around the world.

    emacs is very powerful. Some people use it all day long as a kind of operating system (https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19127258). We'll just talk about the basics here.

    You can open a new emacs session simply by invoking emacs:
    macOS users, stop a second now. If you are on Linux there are no problems, but macOS does not ship applications using GPLv3, and every built-in UNIX command that has been updated to GPLv3 has not been updated.

    While there is a little problem with the commands I listed up to now, in this case using an emacs version from 2007 is not exactly the same as using a version with 12 years of improvements and change.
    This is not a problem with Vim, which is up to date. To fix this, run brew install emacs and running emacs will use the new version from Homebrew (make sure you have Homebrew installed).

    You can also edit an existing file by calling emacs <filename>:
    You can now start editing. Once you are done, press ctrl-x followed by ctrl-w. You confirm the folder:
    and Emacs tells you the file exists, asking you if it should overwrite it:

    Answer y, and you get a confirmation of success:
    You can exit Emacs by pressing ctrl-x followed by ctrl-c. Or ctrl-x followed by c (keep ctrl pressed).

    
45. nano -> nano is a beginner friendly editor.

    Run it using nano <filename>.
    You can directly type characters into the file without worrying about modes.
    You can quit without editing using ctrl-X. If you edited the file buffer, the editor will ask you for confirmation and you can save the edits, or discard them.

    pico is more or less the same, although nano is the GNU version of pico which at some point in history was not open source. The nano clone was made to satisfy the GNU operating system license requirements.
    

46. whoami  -> use whoami to print the user name currently logged in to the terminal session:
    Note: this is different from the who am i command, which prints more information.
    
47. who -> The who command displays the users logged in to the system.
    Unless you're using a server multiple people have access to, chances are you will be the only user logged in, multiple times:
    Why multiple times? Because each shell opened will count as an access.
    You can see the name of the terminal used, and the time/day the session was started.
    The -aH flags will tell who to display more information, including the idle time and the process ID of the terminal.
    The special who am i command will list the current terminal session details.
    

48. su  ->  While you're logged in to the terminal shell with one user, you might need to switch to another user.
    For example you're logged in as root to perform some maintenance, but then you want to switch to a user account.

    You can do so with the su command:
    su <username>
    For example: su flavio.
    If you're logged in as a user, running su without anything else will prompt you to enter the root user password, as that's the default behavior.
    su will start a new shell as another user.
    When you're done, typing exit in the shell will close that shell, and will return you back to the current user's shell.

49. sudo  -> The Linux sudo command
    sudo is commonly used to run a command as root.
    You must be enabled to use sudo, and once you are, you can run commands as root by entering your user's password (not the root user password).
    The permissions are highly configurable, which is great especially in a multi-user server environment. Some users can be granted access to running specific commands through sudo.

    For example you can edit a system configuration file:
    sudo nano /etc/hosts
    which would otherwise fail to save since you don't have the permissions for it.

    You can run sudo -i to start a shell as root:
    You can use sudo to run commands as any user. root is the default, but use the -u option to specify another user:
    sudo -u flavio ls /Users/flavio
    

50. passwd ->  Users in Linux have a password assigned. You can change the password using the passwd command.

    There are two situations here.
    The first is when you want to change your password. In this case you type:
    passwd
    and an interactive prompt will ask you for the old password, then it will ask you for the new one:

    When you're root (or have superuser privileges) you can set the username for which you want to change the password:
    passwd <username> <new password>
    In this case you don't need to enter the old one.
    
    
51. ping -> The ping command pings a specific network host, on the local network or on the Internet.

    You use it with the syntax ping <host> where <host> could be a domain name, or an IP address.
    Here's an example pinging google.com:
    The command sends a request to the server, and the server returns a response.

    ping keeps sending the request every second, by default. It will keep running until you stop it with ctrl-C, unless you pass the number of times you want to try with the -c option: ping -c 2 google.com.

    Once ping is stopped, it will print some statistics about the results: the percentage of packages lost, and statistics about the network performance.
    the screen prints the host IP address, and the time that it took to get the response back.
    Not all servers support pinging, in case the request times out:
    Sometimes this is done on purpose, to "hide" the server, or just to reduce the load. The ping packets can also be filtered by firewalls.
    ping works using the ICMP protocol (Internet Control Message Protocol), a network layer protocol just like TCP or UDP.

    The request sends a packet to the server with the ECHO_REQUEST message, and the server returns a ECHO_REPLY message.
    Pinging a host is useful to know if the host is reachable (supposing it implements ping), and how distant it is in terms of how long it takes to get back to you.
    Usually the nearer the server is geographically, the less time it will take to return back to you. Simple physical laws cause a longer distance to introduce more delay in the cables.